---
title: Alfredo 2  - Album Review
date_pub: 2025.08.08
---

<a href="https://album.link/i/1824019687" target="_blank">**Alfredo 2**</a> is a
pretty good album from _Freddie Gibbs_ and _The Alchemist_. While it didn't feel
spectacular on first listen, it definitely started to grow on me after a couple
of plays.

Every song on the album follows the same formula. Freddie says "yeah, check
check" a couple of times in the beginning, drops an amazing verse, then has a
"yeah, yeah" filled monologue at the end, after which the background story of
the album progresses. All this happening on some lofi, vibey beats, produced by
The Alchemist.

Since the songs have quite long outros, they also feel a little bit short.

While this formula isn't necessarily bad, it does make Alfredo 2 more of a
passive listening experience. Simply due to the predictability of each song.

I also find it a bit weird that this supposedly oriental inspired story that
takes place at the end of each song, is mixed with quite a bit of Hispanic
references, 2 of the songs being named after Spanish dishes.

Besides the outro story, the songs aren't really related.

A pattern I could identify, is that songs tended to progressively get more
energetic, then slow down, then repeat.

**1995** is a fairly good intro song. It's also the longest song on the record.

**Mar-a-Lago** and **Lemon Pepper Steppers** are good background songs.

**Ensalada** is my favorite song. It feels more energetic, the hook is catchy,
and the Anderson .Paak feature simply fits so well.

**Empanadas** feels like a transition song, slowly getting the listener used to
a bit that's a bit more aggressive. **Skinny Suge II** is where the slightly
more aggressive beat really shines tho, I really enjoy the flow of this one.

**Feelings** would have been my second favorite, but the Larry June feature just
ruins it for me. His delivery is soooo bland, and it just doesn't fit on the
damn song.

**I Still Love H.E.R.** is a song where Freddie expresses his love for the game.
It's not really that different from the others tho. Again, same formula.

**Shangri La** again has a more vibey beat and better delivery, in my opinion.

**Gas Station Sushi** is ok, but the lyrics feel a bit drowned out by the beat.
It's a nice beat tho!

**Lavish Habits** gets -100 aura points for using the expression "unalive me",
but it gets out of aura debt by calling Akademiks a fat bastard. Ok song.

**Gold Feet** is the song that makes you head bang. The JID feature definitely
helps here. One of the better songs of the record.

**Jean Claude** is again an ok song. Not much to say about it.

**A Thousand Mountains** has a nice beat and I like that it mentions Andr√© 3000
while having a flute sample in the background. The Barbie Movie mention is a bit
of an ear sore tho.

Over all, an ok album. If I were to pull a number out of my ass, I'd give it a
solid **6/10**.
